"Oh, I can do that later. . ."

I want you to be successful in this course and every other course you are taking. Successful students are not only happy students (who are much more fun to deal with), but I also prefer a successful dentist or engineer to look back at her college years and tell others about her awesome professor. You have lectures and labs. Then there are assignments, reading, videos, papers, quizzes, ... you name it. The main function of all of those is _to motivate you to interact with the content_ we are studying, and pace the material at a speed that constantly feeds you new information, while reiterating the material we already studied until it is in your brain. The only way to fully learn in college is to teach yourself - and that is done through _repeated_ interaction. All of the activities I provide to you in class is to guide you in your _self-teaching_. I can't place information into your head (yet); you must absorb, integrate, and synthesize it yourself. I know: this all sounds like I am not doing much and the work is all on you - and in a sense it is. But it is incredible hard to motivate oneself to learn something new. How often have I tried myself to learn this or that - only to give up a week later? It's just like with diets or New-Years-pledges to work out. Let's face reality - that's just the way humans, or at least 99.999% of them, are and consequently we have to go to school and college to learn. If you don't engage, if you don't take the opportunities I offer, if you don't interact with the material on your own, you will not succeed in college. Thus, the work you do outside of class is more important than what we do in class. _Take charge of your own education._ Follow the weekly schedule and stay on top of your assignments, then do more reading or studying.

Ideally, you interact with every subject you study five times per week outside of class, i.e. every day. Sounds like a lot? First, I am not saying that you should be studying 6 hours each day for every class - no, 1 to 1.5 hours per day will meet the minimum suggested guidance from the University. Maybe there is a day choke-full of labs - then don't study that day and make up for it on another weekday. Second, studying can include fun activities, like researching the topic on the internet, watching videos, making flashcards, draw out concept maps, or reading ahead in the text book. The focus is on _interacting_ with the material. Third, you are considered a full-time student and fulltime jobs are typically 40 hours a week (5 days, 8 hours each). Do you have 40 hours of lectures and lab? - I didn't think so. The rest of those 40 hours is meant to be study time at home. I hope you notice that I don't mention weekends and nights. Those are for relaxation and I consider it very important that you keep those times as free of studying as possible to recharge your batteries.

Make yourself a weekly schedule - I tell this to every student. I know that the vast majority of students ignores my advise, but I also know that the few who don't ignore it are successful... Plan out every hour in the week and assign how you spend it. 8am get up & shower. 8:30-9:00 have breakfast. 9-10 study for BIOL101. 10-11:15 go to art lecture, 11:15-11:45 study for history. 11:45-12:30 have lunch... You get the drift. Than _stick to that plan_ and hold yourself accountable. If you notice that you aren't doing what you said you would (and rather spend the time assignedto math study on twitter or facebook...), then you know you don't have to be surprised if you fall behind and fail. If you are sticking to the plan, but still have trouble in a class, which btw. is unlikely, then you adjust the plan - and having a plan will allow you to see precisely where you can rearrange things and can create time. There is nothing wrong with assigning 1:30-2pm to "updating my social media accounts" at the beginning of the year, but if your grades don't support that usage of time, the you should change it to "studying for biochem" and move the social media updates into your recreational time at 9pm.

The biggest advantage is that once you are done for the day - I'd say no later than 7pm - you can relax because you _know_ you did everything you set out to do. Relaxation and sleep are incredibly important and if the schedule says "party time" then you can party in good conscience and won't lose sleep over missing deadlines and failed classes. A schedule is a very powerful tool that helps you keep your sanity when it gets stressful. Following a schedule is one of the most important skills taught in college - time management.

Hand-in-hand with a schedule goes a calendar, e.g. the CANVAS calendar. Set yourself alarms for events, like exams. A reminder when to start reviewing material will save you the stress of late-night studying sessions the night before the exam. I have never understood the fascination with all-nighters before the exam. Form a neuroscience perspective, it's one of the most inefficient and useless ways to study (if you like, I can elaborate on this topic), and, nevertheless, they are often glorified. Get everything done _well before the deadline_ and your results will be better and your life will be far less stressful.




[back to TOC](./README.md)
